# Sketch

*This document presents possible ideas within a specific organization of topics. The concepts underneath each heading are presented in a stream of consciousness manner, with no hierarchy of importance or logical order. Emphases have been added after the fact as an act of selecting the more valuable concepts*


## Intro/Poetics
**The physics/kinetic metaphor.** Physics is the study of matter and it's movement. Forces, energy, stasis, velocity, acceleration, fluctuation, inertia, gravity, attraction, magnetism, entropy, turbulence. Psychophysics. Perception. Embodiment. Embodied music cognition feels a little sketchy. Gesture. Hypothesis: Acoustic instrumental music can stimulate a kinesthetic response (obviously it can - dancing - maybe responses apart from beat entrainment - like g-force, jerk). Spatial signifiers - pitch contour and Doppler effect,  loudness and proximity. Discrete sounds as particles. Simple description for someone without specialized knowledge of 20th/21st Century Eurocentric Art Music - music that makes you feel like you're hang gliding, or a pinball in a pinball machine, or a water molecule on the surface the ocean. Subjective aspect of derivatives: velocity > acceleration > jerk. I have an aesthetic - I want to share my aesthetic to help you understand my music - you can evaluate my music by this aesthetic or use your own. This an important dimension of the work that deserves to be discussed in a dissertation essay that explains the work. Aesthetics has many dimensions - political, sexual, cultural, economic, scientific, which could be problematic in an acadmenic context? **Perception of self-motion.** Vestibular system, proprioceptors, visual. **New title: *Heave, Sway, Surge*** Connecting forces acted upon instruments to forces acting upon you.

## Acoustical Indeterminacy / Approximation
Recombination of decomposed performance forces is not totally predictable. Think of a word other than indeterminacy], which is not entirely accurate to the concept I have in mind and is overused, and possibly misused, in New Music scholarship. Perhaps use **instability in instrumental sound production** or **chaotic instrumental sound production** instead.  Approximation. Dimensions - time (X), parameter (Y). Microactivity. Control. Intentionality. "Good" sound/tone. Stabilty. Dissection and deconstruction. Parameters. Training and coordination. Discreate vs. continuous parameters.

## Musical Material: Forces and locations and their structuring in time
Necessary to discard (or at least push to the background) discrete ET pitch/pitch class structures. Continuous parameters. Intensities. **Combination and interaction of parameters.** Decomposing instrumental performance. **Vibration exciters and length/volume/mass modifiers: bow, finger, breath, lips, key, fret, slide.** Downwards bow pressure+lateral bow pressure=slipstick phenomenon, air pressure, lip pressure, plucking force. Pressure, force, position of points of contact between performer/implement and instrument. A narrative: New Music is an expansion of musical material. Do I acknowledge narrative and insert my work into it? Or am I coming at it from a different angle?

## Prescriptive Notation / Graphic Scores
**Prescriptive notation** indicates the actions a performer will undertake in performance. Contrast with **descriptive notation**, which declares what sounds a performer should create in performance. Notational strategies. **X-Y plots**, where the X dimension is time and the Y dimension is some performance parameter. **Symbols**. Musical/performance dimension as metric space. Relationship to data visualization and information graphics - business application. My motivation. Generalization - beyond traditional music performance models (primacy of pitch and meter) - towards novelty of material and form and creating equitable, accessible methods of sharing musical or non-music performance information/record/score. Minimizing assumptions about knowledge of an information domain. Varieties of musical notation and representation - neumes, mensural notation,  traditional western classical, shape note, dance notation, colored notation, musical braille, gamelan, MIDI / sequencer view / piano roll, LilyPond, Parson's code, tablature, qinpu, guqin, woodwind fingering diagrams, TUBS, Parsons code. Correspondece between spatial dimension on paper and performance dimension. Lachenmann - *Pression*. Oramics. UPIC. Earle Brown. Cage - *Aria*. Ligeti - *Articulation*. Cornelius Cardew - *Treatise*. 'Score-core'/Complexity: Andrew Greenwald, Aaron Cassidy, Liza Lim, Timothy McCormack. Performer subjectivity and interpretation. Proportional Notation

## Notation Software

## Surge::Dart::Drift

## Miscellaneous Thoughts
Make positive statements. don't value ideas by "interesting" or "novel/new".
